# Audio Classification
I have downloaded the dataset from kaggle :- https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kenjee/z-by-hp-unlocked-challenge-3-signal-processing?ref=blog.paperspace.com 
Audio Classification is a process of analyzing and identifying any type of audio, sound, noise, musical notes, or any other similar type of data to classify them accordingly. Modern deep learning techniques allow us to achieve state-of-the-art results for tasks and projects related to audio signal processing. <br>
**Sound** is the vibrations produced by an object when the air particles in the surrounding oscillate. Sound is a mechanical wave where energy is transferred from one source to another. A waveform is a schematic representation that helps us to analyze the displacement of sound waves over time, along with some of the other essential parameters that are required for a specific task. <br>
On the other hand, the **frequency** in a waveform is the representation of the number of times that a waveform repeats itself within a one-second time period. The peak of the waveform at the top is called a **crest**, whereas the bottom point is called the **trough**. **Amplitude** is the distance from the center line to the top of a trough or the bottom of a crest. **Spectrograms** are the visual representations of the spectrum of frequencies in an audio signal. Other technical terms for spectrograms are sonographs, voiceprints, or voicegrams. <br>
In audio classification, we normally perform a binary classification in which we determine if the input signal is our desired audio or not. In this project, our objective is to retrieve an incoming sound made by a bird. The incoming noise signal is converted into a waveform that we can utilize for further processing and analysis with the help of the TensorFlow deep learning framework. Once the waveform is obtained successfully, we can proceed to convert this waveform into a spectrogram, which is a visual representation of the available waveform. Since these spectrograms are visual images, we can make use of convolutional neural networks to analyze them accordingly by creating a deep learning model to compute a binary classification result.
